Theme Tune: [Music]
Al: Hello, farmers, and welcome to another episode of the harvest season.
Al: My name is Al.
Aislinn: And my name is Aislyn.
Al: And we are here today to talk about gottage gore games.
Al: Woo.
Al: Welcome back, Azeland.
Al: Listener is one of how to do it for a while.
Al: But we recorded the game of the year episode less than a week ago.
Aislinn: I'm all sorts of messed up in regards to like what's the word I'm looking for just like
Aislinn: where time yeah in in regards to the the meta you know the meta you the metaverse
Al: [laughter]
Aislinn: the whatever it was the word the fourth wall the fourth wall so I have to
Al: Chronology.
Aislinn: like think about like what did I talk about when we recorded last week
Al: Look, look, the import-- well, I mean, it's probably most of where you've got in that list.
Al: [laughter]
Aislinn: hahaha
Al: The important thing is that we don't give away in this episode
Al: the year winner.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm, true.
Al: That's the important thing, which will definitely not be hard.
Aislinn: I think it'll be fine.
Aislinn: I think it'll be good.
Aislinn: We can keep it a secret.
Al: This episode, we are finally getting to our Snacko episode. It has taken us so long because I feel like it was it me?
Al: May this Snacko came out 1.0, right? That's what we figured out. We literally talked about this on Saturday, but I'm pretty sure it was me.
Aislinn: I... I don't remember.
Aislinn: Guess what? I forgot.
Al: Me, yes, me. I was right. I
Al: was right. So he's taken since me, but we are finally
Al: properly played Snacko.
Al: We are here to talk about it, before that we do have some news despite me having recorded
Aislinn: Yeah, I'm excited
Al: an episode two days ago.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: We do still have some news.
Al: It's not a lot but there's almost always some news.
Al: So before that, before our four pieces of news,
Aislinn: um I have been up to many many things as you can probably tell um obviously at this point
Aislinn: the legends ZA DLC is out so obviously I've been up to that um as usual nothing will change
Aislinn: with this until the game until I finally reach credits persona 3 reload is still happening
Aislinn: outer wilds is still somewhere in there happening as long as I can circle back to it I
Aislinn: Very much so, Mrs.
Aislinn: I just started literally last night, Greece.
Aislinn: So I'm looking forward to continuing that.
Al: Is that how he is pronounced?
Aislinn: I don't know, is it Greece?
Al: I thought he was gris.
Aislinn: I'm thinking, I know it's some language for grey.
Aislinn: I want to say it's Spanish for grey.
Al: Oh, then it's probably grey. I don't think you pronounce the ass then.
Aislinn: If I remember correctly, isn't that like a French thing to not pronounce the last letter?
Al: Not just... not just...
Aislinn: It's been a minute for me since I'd taken Spanish in high school.
Aislinn: So I'm like, I don't remember, I thought it was Greece.
Aislinn: But again, I could be wrong.
Aislinn: I could totally be wrong.
Aislinn: But either way, I started that game.
Aislinn: Obviously, I've been playing as much as much snacko.
Al: Okay, okay, you might be right, a Google translate does seem to say "gris", but it's more like a it's more like a rather than a "s", it's not like "gris".
Aislinn: Ooh, okay, we'll take it.
Aislinn: Yeah, I think, yeah, I think this sound doesn't exist.
Aislinn: It's in the language, but Greece does, that makes sense.
Aislinn: But started that, obviously, been working in Snacko whenever I can, and I did finally watch
Aislinn: the wholesome snack today.
Aislinn: So now I can listen to the podcast that you and Cody recorded, and I played through, not
Aislinn: all the way through, but I paid through the pandemonium, merge demo, lost and found co, miracle,
Aislinn: No.
Aislinn: Miraj, Miracle Quest, and Reese.
Aislinn: I also played a couple songs from bits and bops, so we got a lot going on.
Al: Nice
Aislinn: That's my list.
Aislinn: That's everything.
Aislinn: How about you?
Aislinn: Woo!
Al: I have been playing Pokemon
Al: DLC that's it pretty much
Al: Certainly since the last podcast recording cuz the last podcast recording came out
Al: Well last podcast was recorded on like Tuesday night just before I went to bed and then Wednesday morning
Al: I woke up and the DLC was there so
Al: Sadly, I that a snack or fell away
Al: Purely because of Pokemon right if it weren't for Pokemon. I definitely would have played more snack. Oh, it's not that I'm not enjoying snackle
Al: But the gotta go gotta get go to get through that DLC before things are too spoiled
Aislinn: Yeah
Al: And then hopefully
Aislinn: Well, if you just don't exist on social media then you can't get spoiled
Al: [laughing]
Al: Yeah.
Aislinn: It's it's it's it's it's pretty good. I'm just I'm not gonna lie. Can anyone reach me? Not really, but it's pretty good
Al: Well, I mean, I don't feel that that's a bot, right?
Al: Like nobody can reach me and it's pretty good.
Aislinn: that's true. That's true. That's a very good point. I just have, you know, just a little
Al: They're far, it's pretty good.
Aislinn: bit of looming guilt, just a little bit, just being unreachable, but that's okay. We're
Aislinn: working through it. But how are you, how are you generally feeling about the DLC?
Al: Fair enough
Al: Yeah, so I am enjoying it. I'm not enjoying the the the time limits for each of the sections
Aislinn: Okay, great. Me too.
Aislinn: Yes, me too. Me too. Me too. Me too.
Al: I I I
Al: Don't get why they felt they need to do the time limits. It's just it feels so
Al: Stressful and I don't know what it adds to it. It's like...
Al: Especially as you can like, what I'm doing is like, it auto saves when you go in the hole, the donut hole, and then, like, just walking around and seeing what there is, and then I reset and then I know exactly where to go, so that I can go and do the things in the time that I want, right? Like, it's not actually, like, it's just satsar unnecessary restriction that is easily worked around, but also still stresses me out because there's a constant timer.
Al: Yeah, not great. I don't know why they made that decision. Have there ever been an area that has been timed in Pokémon that you have to leave at the end of that time before?
Aislinn: Um, I mean, the, the space-time distortions, is that what they were called, I think, right?
Aislinn: In, uh, Legends Arceus, those were gender, really a time limit.
Al: - Yeah, sure, that felt different.
Al: One, you didn't need to like,
Al: consumer consumer will to get them, right?
Al: You just needed to wait and eventually they would come back.
Al: And it also felt much more of the,
Al: like that whole game is about being stressed, right?
Al: Like you're out in the wilds, dying all the time.
Al: And so it's like, here's this one more stressful area.
Al: Do, again, okay, that's fair that that is timed,
Al: but yeah, it definitely does feel different.
Aislinn: Yeah, I I I agree it does feel different my
Aislinn: All right, I am I'll be positive first before I be negative
Al: [laughing]
Aislinn: I am very
Aislinn: Intrigued and curious to see where the story is going and I of course like the characters
Aislinn: That's that's nothing new
Aislinn: I've always liked the characters in this game so far overall and the introduction of the characters and spending more time with other characters in
Aislinn: You'll see has been very enjoyable and I'm again very curious to see where things go, but I
Aislinn: For the first time in what feels like a while in regards to your pokemon game
Aislinn: I have never been as aggravated or frustrated as I have been with the timer and the donut cycle I
Aislinn: theorize that the
Aislinn: reason that the timer
Aislinn: Is a mechanic in the game? It's just because it is a
Aislinn: mechanic that is somewhat regularly used in a number of different games. I can't give you an example off the top of my head. But it's a mechanic that has existed in games more so for the sake of replayability. So it encourages you to continue this cycle of making donuts doing the timer area making yes. And I like I that's fair. I as someone that has learned that I think I
Al: It's Pokémon roguelike, boo that's why I don't like it
Aislinn: like look roguelikes, like I enjoyed velocher for the time that I played velocher. I would really love to play more Hades at some point. Doing that grind of going like the replayability in that sense, I don't mind that because it feels worth it. I don't feel any payoff for the stress that I feel in these time areas. I come out of there and I'm frustrated almost every single time. So I'm trying to get through the areas in the sense of just getting through it in
Aislinn: enough to be able to make it through the main story. So I can either avoid the areas altogether or go in with less pressure to then just be like, Oh, the timer's up. Okay. Whatever. It's fine. I can move on with my life. I'm trying to reframe that because otherwise if I harp on it too much for me, I get very frustrated and I just felt myself just I was so I I've been so tired today because or no. Well,
Aislinn: Yesterday, I was very tired yesterday and then even rolling into the day because I don't think I ever fully recover from the frustration that exhausted me from playing the game for 10 hours and dealing with the timer. Donut cycle for 10 hours and the donuts too. There's no guidance, nothing. And I want to look up guidance, but I know with Pokemon the way that the most Pokemon game goes is that as you continue through that mechanic, whatever it may be, if I look something up, there's going to be a spoiler somewhere down the line because it's going to be something.
Aislinn: special donut that's going to indicate this Pokemon is coming to the game or this new something something is going to be in the game. And that's going to be like a spoiler for me. So I can't even look anything up on like a wiki or something or like therapy because it's probably going to be a spoiler if I look it up. So I'm kind of just stuck in the cycle of guessing. What's a good donut to make? And I'm just I'm just not enjoying it at all. Unfortunately. So that's where I'm at. That's my rant.
Al: That's fair. Yeah. I think I might grow to like it, um, because I, I think the donuts are
Al: getting better and longer as I go. Um, and so I'm hoping that at some point the donuts get
Al: long enough that it's not really an issue, right? The problem is when you have like a three
Al: minute donut and you're like, how am I meant to completely explore this area in three
Al: minutes? But if I were to get like a 15 minute donut, that would be fine, right? Like
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: these areas aren't humongous.
Al: I just need more time, I don't need infinite time, I just need more time and then you do get to the point where like what was the point in the mechanic in that case, then if they are long enough to do that, but I have a strong suspicion that I will be able to get longer.
Aislinn: Yeah, I just, I think I agree, but I just have to get to that point.
Aislinn: So I have to just deal with the aggravation for now and the fact that I have to deal with the aggravation for now, for me, is just frustrating it itself.
Al: Yeah, yeah
Aislinn: So I am having an issue with the DLC, but I'm just trying to push through, I'm just trying to push through, I can do it.
Al: Totally fair
Al: You can do it you can do it we can do it woo, let's do it
Aislinn: We can do it. We can do it.
Aislinn: So that's my, that's my, that's my vent.
Al: Shall we talk about some farming game news?
Aislinn: Yes, absolutely.
Al: First up we have center bunny have announced that they're switch and switch to release is
Al: out now. So if you have been wanting to
Al: play this game, but you wanted to play it on the switch or switch to knows your chance.
Aislinn: Have you played this game?
Al: I have not played it, uh, who played it? Someone played it, um, we did. But was there was an episode
Aislinn: Looks like do someone, does someone we know? Has someone played it?
Al: on Cinebunny? How long ago was that? I am just searching through my list of episodes
Aislinn: Okay, I missed it.
Al: I thought, hmm, I thought there was a cinnabunny episode, but I can't.
Aislinn: I remember that the topic of cinnabunny came up in regards to, I forget who mentioned it,
Al: Time to do them more deeper.
Aislinn: but someone was like, "Oh, this would be a good game for me to play," and I took one look at it,
Aislinn: and I was like, "You are dead wrong." Unfortunately.
Al: Haha, that's it.
Al: There was, yes, there was a Cenobani episode, it was in March of this year, March of this
Al: year, Cenobani episode Cody and Kev.
Aislinn: Okay, maybe I got a circle in my way back to that episode just to just to get the take
Al: I think, yeah, I think they enjoyed the game.
Aislinn: Okay
Al: I, like you, have been put off a bit by the graphics.
Aislinn: Hmm yep
Al: is that fair to say, sorry, I'm reading, I'm reading your...
Al: Bill of Pints.
Aislinn: Oh, no, that's fine. That is totally okay. That's why I put them there so we could both bounce all of it
Aislinn: It's it's titled the a's dunking's TM
Al: [laughing]
Aislinn: Okay
Aislinn: Yeah, I it's it's the the way the game looks is not my favorite by any means I
Aislinn: Like I and when I was researching the game before I started typing out all of my dunkings
Aislinn: I was like I don't
Aislinn: Want to unfairly dunk on the game because I don't know much about this game
Aislinn: I don't know the dev studio and then when I looked into the devs like the devs
Aislinn: It's one person making the game so it's
Aislinn: one person working on the game, and I know I don't want to be unfairly harsh, but personally, the way the game looks, especially when comparing it to the game cover art.
Aislinn: It's just, and this has been like a trend. This like kind of goes into like another event. We're all about the events today. It's all it's all about venting today. We're like an air conditioner. Anyways, like, I just, I just...
Al: Okay, it's, it is, I mean, it's not incorrect, I guess it.
Aislinn: I don't even know if it's the right term. I'm more both tired, we're both delusional. It's one type of vent, an air vent. I don't know, whatever. Anyways, I...
Al: Hmm. Yep. You are correct. No, I get, I get your point. It's, it's, it's always
Al: difficult to dunk too much on an indie game, especially when it's an individual and
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: It's clearly a labor of love.
Al: It's blood blood, etc, etc, but very much not for you.
Aislinn: much so not for me. I just I just really don't like how the bunnies look. They're just like colored
Aislinn: blobs with two dot eyes and then two white dots on set eyes and then that's it. And I'm like I just
Aislinn: and I think about like in comparison. I really don't want to pit two games against each other.
Aislinn: I just I really don't but I it's like I think about magical delicacy and how good that game looks
Aislinn: and that's a single developer and then I think about synagogue and I'm like wow.
Aislinn: But then it's it's not even that it's not even that though.
Al: Yeah, and it's not, it's, yeah, it's not even just that, right?
Al: Cause like people will be like, oh, the pixel art or whatever.
Al: But like, there are other examples as well.
Al: And again, it doesn't need to be like, oh, hey, your game looks bad.
Al: But like, if you look at something like lemon cake, for example, which is a
Al: very similar game in terms of like size and is also a single individual
Al: developer, and it clearly is not, you know, high fidelity, but.
Al: Just looks so much more, hmm, it, more inviting and more vibrant.
Aislinn: - Yeah.
Al: And you don't have to have specific colors.
Al: That's not what it is.
Al: It's not about like, oh, this one has green, you know, and this one is more
Aislinn: Mm-hmm
Al: dark.
Al: Like you can make a dark, inviting game as well.
Al: Um, I think the problem is they're trying to go to realistic and realistic
Al: is hard to do well.
Aislinn: Yes, yeah, you know what, that might be that that might be exactly what it is.
Al: Not to do well for triple H studios.
Aislinn: It's got very neutral colors, and like you said, it just feels like it's like realistic.
Aislinn: And I think this game would benefit to having the colors of lemon cake to make it pot
Aislinn: more.
Aislinn: But I still like circle back to the fact, I don't, I still don't know exactly how I feel
Aislinn: in regards to this, this specific point that I make in
Aislinn: regards to the game itself looking different from the game cover art, but it's just there's some
Aislinn: like just cognitive dissonance I guess is the lack of a better word that's happening where the game
Aislinn: looks one way, but then the cover art looks completely different. Like I look at the cover art for
Al: Yeah, yeah, that's not an unusual, yeah.
Aislinn: Sinnoh bunny and it's like then you look at the game like I'm looking at this one screenshot of this
Aislinn: bunny on its hind feet and it says my recipe is I'm looking at the steam page.
Aislinn: And it's just the walls and the floor and the tape, it just looks so land and I just don't
Aislinn: know if I can I just can't cough and I'm sure the gameplay itself mechanic is good that the gameplay
Aislinn: loop is good, but I just aesthetically it's so hard for me to look at this game and then it's
Aislinn: confusing looking at like the game cover for lemon cake and then looking at the game itself.
Aislinn: the colors are similar, but then the art style is completely different.
Aislinn: And it's just like confusing me, and I know it's a common thing, but it's just something that I'm not sure how I feel about.
Aislinn: That's kind of where I'm at. But, to pivot away from that...
Al: well now now the easel islin has taken down the developer of cinnabunny
Al: [Laughter]
Aislinn: No, I don't want it to be like that! No! I don't want to be me!
Al: destroyed them
Al: [Laughter]
Al: too late
Aislinn: I just want to be honest with my feelings.
Al: know that I mean this is the thing like this is
Al: what I I keep saying is like just because we don't like a game necessarily doesn't mean it's bad and all of the reasons that we might like or dislike a game might be the reasons someone else dislikes or likes a game right and that's fine and whatever games you like you're totally fine unless it's triggered your island or time it got you plaza you know what maybe it maybe I won't even say
Aislinn: Yeah. Yeah.
Aislinn: [laughter]
Aislinn: You know, it really be that way.
Aislinn: It really be that way.
Al: got you plaza because like I can I can after what Micah said to me on the game of the year episode that you will hear listeners in two weeks he's maybe convinced me that it's not as horrifically bad as I could have as I originally thought and I can see why someone might like it she could you island on the other hand is just bad so let's go back to just there's only one
Aislinn: [laughing]
Aislinn: There.
Al: bad game and it's you could you island everything else is just not for me cozy caravan have announced that they are leaving early access their one point oh is coming out on the 8th of January the first release of 2026 I think.
Aislinn: I'm happy to roll with that.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Aislinn: Woo, I was like, "Wow, I know that news when I was watching the wholesome direct. I was like,
Aislinn: "Wow, spoiled!"
Al: It's by little alert.
Aislinn: I mean, awesome. I'm happy to see it's leaving early access. It's a game that's been on my
Aislinn: wishlist, so I'm happy to just see it be a full-fledged game. Yay!
Al: You're allowed to play it now
Al: Yeah, I don't think there's much else to say it's adding stuff so go play the game if you if you were looking for it
Aislinn: Bear.
Al: We also have another update from Traveler's Rest
Al: This is the three trials update and this adds a new story in new areas and new characters
Al: This seems to be the first Traveler's Rest like major Traveler's Rest update that I've seen has
Al: Like added in what I would assume would be a core piece of functionality and made me question what was in the game
Al: Like the like there was like maybe four updates in there were like, ah, we've just implemented being able to serve drinks in the tavern
Aislinn: - Right.
Al: And I'm like, that's that's not your whole thing
Aislinn: [Laughing]
Al: It's like if if the first start you update had like
Aislinn: Ah.
Al: implemented crops like what did you have before?
Aislinn: Yeah, that's a bit... that that is a bit odd.
Aislinn: But this seems to, yeah, like you said, make more sense in the sense of it's adding more stuff that shouldn't...
Aislinn: That doesn't... that shouldn't already exist in the game.
Aislinn: Is that what it... does that make sense?
Al: I
Aislinn: I think that makes sense.
Aislinn: I... (laughs)
Al: Think we know what you mean
Aislinn: Yes. (laughs)
Al: Yeah
Aislinn: Again, it's one of those days.
Al: Game has been an early access for five and a half years
Aislinn: Five and a half years!
Al: Five and a half years
Al: July 2020 was when it went into Ali accent
Aislinn: What?
Aislinn: Oh! Oh my god, yeah.
Al: But but it has very positive reviews on steam
Aislinn: That's... that's good.
Al: It has our SteamDB rating of 86.
Aislinn: Someone six hours ago early access review
Aislinn: Thumbs down finish the game. It's been nearly six years. Oh
Al: I find it funny. I wonder what they expect from that, right? Because it's like, well,
Aislinn: Man
Al: if they just said it's no longer an early access, but did nothing else. And they were like,
Al: here you go. With that, would they be happy with that? Is that it finished, right? Because
Aislinn: I see. Good question.
Al: like they're kind of, I mean, this also this this person has six hours logged in the game.
Al: It's not very many hours over nearly six years. So, just gonna just gonna say, maybe, maybe
Aislinn: That's true. That's a very good point.
Al: sharp. That's all. That's all. I mean, I think people seem to be pretty happy with her
Al: is and are enjoying more updates. And yeah, what's, what's up?
Al: Like if I, if I, I, no, okay, we're fine. Yeah. Let's, let's move on. Enjoy your update. If you don't
Aislinn: Yeah, fair enough. Yeah, that's it. That's it. That's that's that's the overall learning lesson. If you don't like the game, don't play the game, but don't ruin it for others if they like the game. Let them enjoy the game. That's it.
Al: like the game, don't play the game.
Al: unless unless the game is sugared you island.
Aislinn: That's it. Yes. Okay. That's the exception. asterix unless it's sugar to island got it. Oh my god. She included this out of it. No. I never.
Al: Have you ever played the game?
Aislinn: No, I'm just I'm I'm I'm happy to dunk as needed.
Al: I will never understand how many people like it.
Aislinn: I don't know. I saw it has very positive reviews too and I'm like, I don't know as far as I know it's a terrible game because what Al says goes.
Al: Bizarre.
Al: Yeah 67% of people have part
Aislinn: I'm glad someone enjoys it, I guess.
Al: All right, we also have one new game to talk about. This is the free shepherd
Aislinn: I saw this look so cute.
Al: Right, so this is let me read the blurb run fast and free as a sheepdog in a beautiful but troubled world
Al: haired masses of lost sheep to a secret refuge discover a mysterious calamity that only you can stop I
Al: I'm... I'm...
Al: Yeah, why are there so many herads of sheep that I need to... I mean, I guess that's the point of the game is the... the mystery, right? It's just... it's really fascinating.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm.
Al: And do I want to be a colleague? Yes, I do want to be a colleague and run free around the hills and hair it up sheep. That is... that is my dream. That is what I want to be in.
Aislinn: But it's so, I'm so intrigued by this ice land and this big tower and this rock with
Aislinn: the perfect circle hole in it.
Al: is the goodbye going to save the world.
Aislinn: I say yes, I hope yes.
Aislinn: Also, it's apparently similar to Outer Wilds.
Aislinn: I don't know how they made that determination, but...
Al: mhm. Oh, yeah. What does it say on me? It says this is similar to how like hello, get the island adventure.
Aislinn: Two, two different worlds.
Al: Amazing. Amazing. This game looks so good.
Aislinn: It does look really good.
Aislinn: I think this would be a nice hanging out on the couch, put it on, type of game, under a blanket.
Al: ambient. Also, proof that you don't need vibrant colors. You know, when we were talking
Al: earlier about colors, you can, you can be non-vibrant colors and still look very inviting.
Aislinn: All it takes is a consistent concept.
Aislinn: That's all, that's it, that's all it is.
Al: Oh, Islin, all I want to be is a cheap dog running
Aislinn: I would say same, but I think I'm more so I just want to be a cat.
Aislinn: I'm very happy to be a cat hanging out on my cat tower, but that's just me.
Al: I once, I had a gap here between school and university
Al: where I worked at an outdoor center.
Al: And at this outdoor center,
Al: there was a married couple who had to call
Al: a two board to call it.
Aislinn: I know. Yeah.
Al: And those dogs, I love those dogs so much.
Al: They are my favorite dogs.
Al: And these dogs were so, so fast.
Al: And like, when I tell you they ran,
Al: I mean like, they ran.
Al: So we were at the top of the hill above the lock.
Al: And they would run for...
Al: the top of the hill all the way down to the lock, and this would take like a ten-minute drive, and they would just like absolutely bolt it down, like so much so that you would hardly see them going, they're just so incredibly fast, and they would just thunder.
Al: are amazing dogs. They were also made in rescue dogs.
Aislinn: Oh, oh, that's so cute. That's so, so, so sweet.
Al: Those dogs are almost certainly dead now.
Aislinn: Oh, why are you gonna say it that way?
Al: [laughs]
Al: It's been so long.
Aislinn: You could have just left it at that.
Al: It's just, it's been, it's been so long.
Aislinn: But still.
Al: [laughs]
Al: Oh, I love those dogs, those dogs are so good.
Al: They just love to, it's like they have,
Al: they have a like compulsion to run.
Al: It's not that they like to run.
Al: It's that they have to run.
Aislinn: Yeah, I will watch you run and heard while I sit on my suction cup window cat bed
Al: Running is what they do.
Al: I will run, run.
Al: [laughs]
Aislinn: and hang out. Oh yeah, that's a wonderful transition. Wow! Wow!
Al: All right, well, speaking of cats, shall we talk about Snacko?
Al: Sometimes, sometimes I have them, sometimes I do.
Al: All right, so Snacko, just in case anybody is not aware.
Al: Snacko is a farming game but you're a cat.
Al: [laugh]
Aislinn: Yeah
Al: That, I mean, that's it, I shouldn't have to tell you anymore.
Al: It is also a good looking game.
Al: It is also a fun game to play.
Al: They are wonderful people.
Al: I have interviewed them on the podcast far too long ago because time does not exist.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: It is, I guess, intro to how it starts is you are on a boat going away to a new land.
Al: And your, your boat, I think I can't remember it, does it just overturn or
Al: is it crashing to something?
Al: I can't remember the details of that.
Aislinn: Um, there's like a hole that appears, yeah.
Al: Oh, yes, it just slowly, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: And then you awaken on the beach in this new area.
Al: January 2020, by the way, is when I interviewed them nearly six years ago.
Al: That's mad.
Al: You awaken on the beach.
Al: You are awakened by a local.
Al: You find your fellow traveler who is also on the beach and you start your new life on Snacko Island as the farmer.
Al: And your aim of the game is to rebuild Snacko Island.
Al: It's dilapidated, there are, there are but three cats living on this island now.
Al: You, your fellow traveler and, and Nobu, the,
Al: three of you are
Al: you are building up this island, you are bringing new people in, you are farming, you are building, you are exploring, you are dungeon mastering, I don't know how to describe the verb for that, we'll get to that, we'll get to that when we get to it.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: And is that fair enough overview of the intro to this game?
Aislinn: I would say yeah, I
Aislinn: Let me see how much time I sunk into the game, but I would say yeah
Aislinn: That's a that's a perfect intro into this game only played it for a seven-point eight hours
Aislinn: I thought I sunk in more time. I feel like I sunk in so much more time
Al: [laughter]
Al: That's the beauty of it.
Al: A-- a-- a-- take a disappears time.
Aislinn: Oh man
Aislinn: It really does there's just so much to do and I just keep so busy and I have such a great time that time
Aislinn: I just I really thought I sunk in more time so you're gonna have a
Aislinn: lot more notes than I am but still everything that you said still yeah that's
Al: We'll see, we'll see, we'll see, we'll see, I mean, people don't really need to listen
Al: to the rest of the episode, games good, go play it, there you go, that's it, that's all
Al: you need to know, game is good, and you know, I couldn't possibly say either way, but
Aislinn: it it's worth it
Al: possibly someone might end up bringing it up in a future episode about good games of
Al: the year. You never know. We'll we'll see what comes from that.
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: Um, okay, should we talk about the visuals then?
Al: Because it is, uh, uh, how I would describe it as a paper
Al: Mario-esque visuals. You are 2D characters in a 3D world.
Aislinn: Yeah, mm-hmm
Al: Um, it is, uh, it is quite a vibrant world, the colors pop.
Al: Um, and, uh, the, I don't know where I was going with that.
Aislinn: I mean, I love the visuals.
Al: I like the video.
Al: individuals. Always go to one, not me there, don't you?
Aislinn: That might unintentionally be my thing.
Aislinn: It's not trying to one up, but it just happens to come across that way, and it's not my intention.
Al: [laughing]
Al: Yeah, I really like it as well.
Al: I think one negative I would say about the visuals
Al: is some of the areas feel quite samey.
Al: There's quite a few areas that feel like
Al: this is the grassy area
Al: and this is also the grassy area
Al: and this is also the grassy area.
Al: I would maybe like a little bit more variety
Al: in terms of that, but just in general,
Al: I like how it looks.
Al: I like all the models and stuff.
Al: like the colors I like.
Al: the world. I have finally got to a point where I am understanding the layout of the island
Al: and being able to go places without the map, which is always a big thing. Yeah.
Aislinn: Yeah, I would say even though I have not sunk in as much time as you probably have,
Aislinn: I would say I picked up like navigating around the island so far, like pretty quickly, like it's,
Aislinn: yeah I picked up on it pretty quickly. I agree with you, the art style and the colors are so
Aislinn: very very very cute and so just it feels childlike in a way is maybe like the best way to describe
Aislinn: it. I feel like I'm just like a kid playing this game again is the emotions that I feel. I just
Aislinn: like I like just love just sitting down at my desk and just playing the game having for me
Aislinn: having the wiki off to the side and just existing like the immersion of this game is very much so
Aislinn: wonderful, especially I can't go in yet but just walking accidentally walking into the mush
Aislinn: room forest has been like one of my favorite experiences that was so so pretty everything it feels
Al: I think that's the thing is that's why they're being so many just like generic grassy areas is the one kind of frustrate is why it's frustrating to me because the other areas are just so different and so and everything looks good and then it's like and the areas that I'm going into every day are all the same grassy area right like I
Aislinn: intentional with the art direction of this game and I adore although I do agree with the grassy
Aislinn: thing. Yeah.
Al: I think that's the thing is like we have these lovely gorgeous areas that really you don't go in very much and you know you have to unlock to get into them as you progress the story which is fine but then once you've done that you're only really going in if you need to do something for the quest right like your farm and the main town area and the kind of more common areas they're all the kind of grassy areas and it's not really a complaint right like it's not like they look bad it's just like these other areas
Al: areas look great I want to be able to see more mystical looking areas more regularly you know.
Aislinn: I mean, they kind of set the expectation when you check out these or you accidentally stumble
Aislinn: across these other areas and then you go back to like your farm and just like the main
Aislinn: town area and it's all kind of the same.
Aislinn: So the expectation has kind of been raised in that sense, but it's also not like a deal
Aislinn: break or a game changer or anything for me.
Al: No. No. Just, just to make it very clear, we both love this game and everything we say
Aislinn: It's just an observation.
Aislinn: Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
Al: is nitpicking, right? Like, this is, this is, this is not the game is bad because of these.
Al: This is the game is great. And if it had these things, it would be perfect rather than anything else.
Aislinn: Yes
Al: So just, just to make that fairly clear, we love this game, fill stop.
Aislinn: Yes, yes
Al: Okay, cool. Let's talk about the mechanics then. So, oh, sorry.
Aislinn: Dale Dale North might be love it the music. Oh
Al: Yes, we, oh, yes, we didn't talk about music. Yes, good point. My, my bad, my bad.
Aislinn: Oh my god. No, you're good. You're good. I
Aislinn: Just I needed to get that out of my system
Aislinn: Dale North
Aislinn: Fantastic music fantastic music, and then listen. I'm not playing the game
Aislinn: And the remixes
Al: I was going to say, have you listened to the remixes.
Aislinn: Oh my gosh, I was listening to it while I was co-working last week on stream and
Aislinn: I just I was like I want to listen to all damn Dale North view that music so I was listening to magical delicacy
Aislinn: music and
Aislinn: Snacko music and then while it's like you have like the really just like cozy
Aislinn: cozy
Aislinn: s vibes from the magical delicacy and the regular snacko.
Aislinn: And then all of a sudden, you have the remixes mixed in there and I'm just like working on my things and like just head banging. I'm like, this is so good! I am floored with the music from snacko. Absolutely floored. Wonderful music production.
Al: Yeah. I love that they got, they managed to get
Al: chamelea to make remixes, like it's such a, you kind of,
Al: because I'm not sure if you're aware of their music.
Aislinn: No, because of the remixes, I have to check out the rest of their stuff now.
Al: They have quite a lot of songs in Beat Saber.
Aislinn: Oh, sick. That's awesome.
Al: And they are the like hardest Beat Saber levels.
Al: They are like the, oh no.
Al: Here we go. I am going to massively lose like the only the only ones I haven't finished or I expect are Camellia songs, they are just insane, some of them.
Aislinn: That's sick. That's awesome. I gotta look into their stuff. I definitely gotta look into their stuff.
Al: And, and they've done collaborations with Toby Fox and stuff like that. So yeah, they're, they're not, you know, a small, not the Dale North is, you know, there's tiny bit like, yeah.
Aislinn: Yes, uh-huh.
Aislinn: Oh, yeah, I see like they're their album covers for some of their other
Aislinn: Works, I mean even the album coming for the snacko remixes for them. Yeah, this is
Al: Yeah I don't know details of that I'm not particularly surprised
Aislinn: Do they make vocal boy music? I see me coo. I see a me coo
Aislinn: Count me in oo. I see a teto. I'm in
Aislinn: Give me vocaloid. I'm it
Aislinn: Oh my god. Yeah, they both they feature on vocaloid hits. Okay. I'm digressing. That's awesome. That's sick. Okay. Definitely on the list. That's awesome
Al: So, okay, good. Yeah, Visual is good, Music's good, fantastic.
Aislinn: Yeah, music great
Aislinn: Do we move on to the
Al: You're gonna, you're gonna, well, let's, okay, let's talk about, before we get into like the full mechanics,
Al: let's talk about the beginning of the game. You've got your customization. I made a ginger cat.
Aislinn: Oh, you made my maki, you basically made my maki.
Al: I like my little ginger cat. Sure.
Aislinn: Yeah, I did actually, I forgot I made a note that I was trying to make a tuxedo cat specifically
Aislinn: in my past cat precious and I just wish there was a little bit more customization with
Aislinn: the cat pattern because I can't add like a little white patch on the chest, which I'm
Aislinn: about, but I made it work, so, but otherwise like the character customization is pretty
Aislinn: good.
Aislinn: It's pretty standard, I just wish there was more.
Al: I spent quite a lot of time in there making sure I was happy and you know getting the right color and stuff like that
Al: This is normally where we talk about tutorial. I kind of don't want to talk about tutorial a lot because it's going to tie into the quests a lot
Al: Which I want to talk about later
Al: But suffice to say I think they've done tutorial really well like I am such a big critic of tutorial
Al: The very start of the game you have a bit of you know dialogue and and and tutorial to really get you started
Al: But it's particularly short. It's like the
Al: absolute basics of things. And then all the other tutorial is in quests that you can just choose to do. So if you're like, oh, I want to do fishing, and you haven't been told about fishing, you go to the quest board and you see the one that is a tutorial for fishing, and that's how you learn about fishing and you get the fishing rod, et cetera, et cetera.
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: Well, I think it's a really good way of doing it, especially for someone like me, where it's like, here is the absolute basics you need for this game. And also you can skip that.
Al: If you want, when you're creating your save file, you can say skip tutorial day. But you've got like, I don't know, it maybe took like 10 minutes or something to get through the tutorial day. And then once you've done that, you now have the basics of the game. You can just go and do what you want, or you can go and then learn more more tutorial, go through more tutorial on learn more, but the other parts of the game as you unravel the game. Like you can leave some of it really
Aislinn: Yeah, that's true. I think about it, that is a very good point. You can leave some of that stuff to whenever you want to do it and you can just do whatever you want and whatever order that you want, which is very nice to have that flexibility, very, very nice to have that flexibility.
Al: Yeah, yeah, really really good. The one disadvantage of it is like there are sometimes you might not realize that oh, there's this thing
Al: I could use like it took me ages to realize there was a sword you could get because I just hadn't noticed that tutorial quest
Aislinn: Oh, yeah.
Al: And so I was like manually getting rid of the grass on my farm by using the whole on every single square and then
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: And then I was like always that a faster at Google whether there was a fast way to do it and then we're like you get the sword and I'm like, oh
Al: Oh, there's a sword. Yeah, okay
Aislinn: I just stumbled across that crest recently.
Al: But if you if you are aware that's how these quest things work
Al: There is our in the on the quest board. There is like a tutorial section
Al: So you can look in that and see all of the tutorial quests if you want to just filter it into that which is is really good
Aislinn: um-hmm yeah it's very nice that they have the different categories filtered like that for the
Aislinn: quests whether you want to do main story whether you want to do um I guess like guild stuff whether
Al: All right, we're talking about quests
Aislinn: you want to do okay yeah we're just going straight into quests that is fine
Al: Finally, okay. Yeah, so there is the quests are basically almost entirely
Al: Like pool pooling quests rather than pushing them to you and what by that
Al: I mean like you have to ask for quests
Al: It never goes like oh here are ten quests go
Al: And I actually really like that because it means that if you don't want to focus on something you can just ignore it
Al: So you have a question board in the in
Al: middle of the the the tone and you go to it and you say I want this quest and before you select the quest it tells you what you need to do to start it like all of the steps and what you get for it. So if you're like if you don't have access to something or you don't want to do a specific thing, then you can just ignore that quest without there's nothing I find more annoying than having a quest you can't do just now and just sitting there for days and days and days with this quest you can't complete just sitting in your list of things.
Al: And so the fact that I can look at it and go okay yeah I can do all these things let me select that quest just now and go and do it. It's really nice I really like. Yeah. It's a cottageco game that's kind of yeah it's one of the things that you know we like about these games is the less stressed the like do what you
Aislinn: I also like that there's no time limit for these quests, at least what I've encountered so far.
Aislinn: You could just, again, do them whatever you want, which is awesome.
Aislinn: I'd love it.
Aislinn: Yeah, I guess I think about that because I think about the quest board or the request,
Al: Ah, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
Aislinn: whatever the thing is called in Stardew, and it's like you have three days, and I'm like,
Al: Yeah, I just, I just ignored those quests and if I, if I wasn't sure I could do it, I never
Aislinn: I have no idea if I'm going to catch this fish.
Aislinn: I have no idea, which, I bet the thing is I love quests, so it's like my thing is I always
Al: took a quest because I'd much rather not have a quest than failable.
Aislinn: want to do the quest first, but it's like, also I need to do this thing and this thing
Aislinn: and I want to do this quest first, but I have to do this thing and I just, yeah, I guess
Aislinn: that's fair.
Aislinn: I shouldn't pick up the quest in the first place, but when I see it there, it's
Aislinn: like, I have to interact with it, I can't not interact with it.
Al: Don't I don't think I've ever done a fish quest in stardew just cuz I'm like, I know I don't I don't I'm not
Aislinn: That's fair, that's fair.
Aislinn: I'm just a quest person, I guess, to be fair.
Al: Yes
Aislinn: But yeah, again, not having a time limit is awesome,
Aislinn: because speaking of the fishing quest,
Aislinn: like one of the quest's requires you to catch salmon.
Aislinn: And I can't find salmon.
Al: I presume you've made sure you're far fishing in the right spot at the right time.
Aislinn: I am trying over and over and over again,
Aislinn: and I can't find salmon.
Aislinn: Yes, yes, and I still can't.
Aislinn: I'm just, it's bad RNG for me.
Aislinn: Yeah, yeah, yeah, fair.
Al: Such as life. That's the problem with that's the problem with fishing always the problem with fishing
Al: Which we'll get on to later
Aislinn: Yeah, the way it's all organized and everything,
Aislinn: very nice.
Aislinn: I like that you can also take notes in-game,
Aislinn: for a set of quests if you want.
Al: Yeah, in game with these things is really important cuz like for me cuz a lot of I know a lot of people are like they'll sit with their
Al: With their note pad next to them or their spreadsheet next to them and they'll be like typing typey typey or a righty righty righty
Aislinn: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Al: I'm not like that if I have an oat book. It is lost
Al: If I have something written down it is gone and if I'm playing a game
Al: I'm not playing it in a place where I will want to be looking at a spreadsheet, right?
Al: like I'm sitting on my sofa watching TV with my wife.
Al: I'm not sitting there wanting to have a spreadsheet up on my laptop at the same time.
Aislinn: I will say, even though I did make the note that being able to take notes in the game is sick,
Al: And so yeah, being able to note things down in-game is...
Aislinn: and I will probably take advantage of that more when I am playing it.
Aislinn: So I actually haven't played it on my Steam Deck yet, because I've been playing it at home,
Aislinn: so I'm like, oh, I might as well just sit at my PC, because I like sitting at my PC.
Aislinn: So I have actually been using a notebook for my note taking as I'm playing the game.
Aislinn: But having the option to go between both is very nice, especially in your case.
Al: - Yeah, for sure.
Aislinn: But I will say, I wish, speaking of the notebook, I wish that I could pin more than one crafting
Aislinn: recipe while doing the quests, because then I, I'm not even pinning them anymore,
Aislinn: because I'm just writing them in my notebook, because I want to have, I need sometimes for
Aislinn: like one quest you have to make, like, I think, like, paper.
Aislinn: in order to make paper, need this thing, but then to, like, you have to make, like, some,
Aislinn: you have to make, I think it was a sleeping box, so you need to make paper to then make cardboard
Aislinn: to then make the sleeping box. So it's like one, two, three, and I would like to just be able to pin all three
Aislinn: to the side, but I can't. So that's why I ended up just writing it all down. Minor complaint, but just,
Al: Yeah
Aislinn: like, just, just a complaint. And I do wish to that.
Al: Yeah fair
Aislinn: that I could pin locations or villagers on the map for markers and also just access or maps.
Al: Yeah, I think the map, I think the map in general is probably the game's weakest point.
Al: I think it's functional, and it technically does everything I want it to do.
Al: It's just awkward doing most of the things with it, right?
Al: If you want to open up, okay, so let me open up my lap and see you.
Al: If you're in the area of the map that I'm in, I will be able to see him unless he's in a
Al: building. If he's in a different area of the map that I can't see, I can't see him and I don't know
Aislinn: Yep.
Al: how to know whether I see him or not. You just have to kind of like scan over and see some people and
Al: some buildings show in a list that you can then like click on and it will highlight it on the map,
Al: but not everything.
Al: I don't think I don't have the game open in front of me, but I think for example correct me if I'm wrong, but like nobody's house
Al: I don't think you can highlight on the map for example and I'm not sure why that is I might be wrong a bit nobody says
Al: But there are certainly some buildings that I went to go and like click on the list in the map to see what it was and it just was
Aislinn: I think I think you're right. I can't remember either and I also don't have the game open, so I can't fully remember
Aislinn: But I remember having an issue and I might have just been my game being funky at one point, but I remember
Al: [laughs]
Aislinn: Not related, but kind of tangent tangentially related
Aislinn: The calendar too. I was having a trouble with interacting with it at some point
Aislinn: Like I could not click on the map the calendar at all
Aislinn: So I'm just looking at this calendar and I see like three pieces of cake
Aislinn: on the calendar and I'm like I assume that's someone's birthday, but I could not interact with it and it was weird, so it might be just an occasional glitch thing is my suspicion, because that doesn't seem right, but I still agree that the map could use more work especially with like being able to view more areas at once.
Al: Yeah, it's also just things like, you know, like moving between the tabs for different items and stuff like that
Al: It's just everything on them on the map is just slightly more awkward to do than would be ideal
Al: And I'm really focusing on this purely because it is like the one area where I've been a little bit disappointed in it
Al: I think it could do with a lot of little bits of work in different places. It's not like it needs a complete overhaul
Al: There's just like a few different kind of user experience things that it could use
Al: in terms of improvement and if you did like five things it would be a million times better
Al: Yeah, that that's all it's not massive and it's not like I hate them up
Al: I still use it. It's still good enough to do what I wanted to do
Al: It just takes like a few more clicks every time than I would like to do the extended things and stuff
Aislinn: Yeah, this is yeah, that's another thing too with the
Aislinn: Since you mentioned like the toggling in between things in the map in general and just more clicks I
Aislinn: Since I've been playing it at my PC when I end up opening up like my
Aislinn: journal or my quest log or anything with a map. I end up just switching to my I primarily play with the controller
Aislinn: But when I switched to when I open up that stuff, I end up using my
Aislinn: mouse because
Aislinn: trying to toggle in between like the different filters for example for the quests
Aislinn: feels
Aislinn: slightly awkward
Aislinn: Nothing terrible, but it just feels a little bit
Aislinn: Clunky, especially when I could be using the bumpers and triggers more to be able to cycle through different areas of the menu
Aislinn: overall
Aislinn: So in addition to that with the map, it just feels a bit awkward
Al: Yeah. I will say I agree with you. I also think that this is a much better game in terms
Aislinn: So I ended up hovering over different areas of the map.
Aislinn: with my mouse because it's just faster.
Al: of controller support than most games are in my experience. They've clearly properly integrated
Aislinn: I agree. I agree.
Al: the controller. It's not just like pretending it's a nice and keyboard, which a lot of controller
Al: support does, right? But yeah, I agree. I think it's difficult when you build
Al: our interface for most in keyboard, and then you add on control support. A lot of things are not ideal, and then you have the option of do we change how the UI works now that we have it, and we're adding this or do we make it, or do we make the control support less ideal, and they definitely went with the second option, which I understand why they did.
Al: But yeah, it's like the, is it the journal, is that where they call it, where you've got the quests, and is like the, the, the.
Al: recipes and all this stuff. It's like a big book with all the stuff in.
Aislinn: Yeah, whoa the recipes is is a struggle
Al: That whole, that whole book, it is, technically fine in terms of how the controller works, but I, as you say, like it could work a little bit nicer in terms of like to switch tab, you have to like go to the left and then select the tab with it with the buttons and then press the, you know, the A button and then it selects that tab.
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: So I have the like pressing in of the right control stick to go to quests. There's a claim all button for the quests. If you have a bunch of quests that completed, you can, you can press the button to claim all, but it doesn't work by default unless you've so, unless your focus is on the quest section of the book. So if I press, if I press the right control stick to go into quests and press the X button, it doesn't.
Aislinn: Yes. I love that.
Aislinn: Oh, I didn't even realize that.
Al: It doesn't claim everything. I have to, I have to press the control stick in and then go right on the deep out of the left analog stick and then press X. That's the only way that it will work. It's like such small, tiny things that like sound so per nicotine. And it's like so pathetic, the fact that we're talking about these things, but this is just the level of when you like a game this much, you just go into this. There's so few things about it that are like fundamentally problems that you go into these really.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: really narrow weird things. And it's just like every time I want to claim a quest, I have to do it one extra button press, which is so silly, but also just that little bit annoying. You know, it's like exactly exactly. So like if, if, if I open the quest thing, putting my focus on the quests by default would save me so much minor annoyances as I play the game.
Aislinn: It's just, it's just a little bit. It's not ruining my experience, but it's just a little bit.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm, I agree, I agree.
Aislinn: And again, I've personally adjusted
Aislinn: by just using my mouse at points like that.
Aislinn: So that's maybe another reason
Aislinn: that I just don't even realize sometimes.
Aislinn: But it is, I remember when I first,
Aislinn: it's like one of the first notes that I took
Aislinn: when I was making my notes for this recording eventually,
Aislinn: was just, it felt a little clunky.
Aislinn: It could be a little bit better.
Aislinn: I do agree the control support is very good
Aislinn: in contrast to other games,
Aislinn: but it could always be better.
Al: agreed, agreed. All right. So that's quests and have we done all of the, we've not done
Al: all the control stuff. So let's talk about more controls, more in general, because we talked
Al: about the menus and the map and stuff like that. Let's talk about how good the jumping
Aislinn: Mm-hmm.
Al: in this game is. Not only, not only do you get to jump and by the way, jumping will be
Aislinn: Ah, it's so good. The jump dash, ah.
Al: a major theme in the game of the year episode, just saying, not only is jumping fun.
Al: But you have a double jump right from the start. I get a double jump straight away.
Aislinn: Yes, yes, yes, oh it's so good, it's so good.
Al: I, I, I cannot, I don't walk in this game. I just, I just cannot walk. I, I am jumping. I'm jumping
Al: and dashing. I'm jumping over things and then jumping round things. I'm jumping through things.
Al: Like, why, why walk when you can jump? Gotta jump.
Aislinn: I see why you want to be a border collie.
Aislinn: It's all making sense.
Al: Jump. Jumping everywhere.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Aislinn: No, I have nothing else to add.
Aislinn: It's so good.
Aislinn: If you want to walk, if you want to just, you know,
Aislinn: run around or whatever, like you can do that,
Aislinn: but if you want to like, I agree,
Aislinn: if you want to, you will be jumping and dashing rather.
Aislinn: And it feels so good.
Aislinn: And it just does not feel like a slog to get through
Aislinn: because you have these options and it's so nice.
Aislinn: It's so, so, so nice.
Al: one complaint that I do have is that because the jumping is so much fun, I want to jump everywhere,
Al: it means that the few invisible walls they have are really frustrating. I don't know if you
Al: I don't know if you know, experience them. So see when you're coming from your farm to the
Aislinn: Don't even remember. I don't even remember
Al: main town entrance, you know, the archway that's over the where your your boxes, your shipping box,
Aislinn: Yeah
Al: you can't go over that because it's an invisible wall.
Aislinn: Oh, so I never even I never even dropped that high. I just jumped through it
Al: I see, I tried to go over it because it feels like it will be faster. It feels like a shortcut,
Al: but then it doesn't let me jump over it.
Aislinn: Again minor minor complaint. I'm like just jump through it then it's it. It's all it is
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, but what if I want to jump over it?
Aislinn: No, I agree. I agree. 100%. Hey, there could be a patch that comes
Al: You wouldn't stop a bar to call you jumping over it, would you?
Aislinn: down the line. I would not stop a border collar from doing just about anything. If that's what makes their heart
Aislinn: happy, that's what makes their heart happy. That I can agree with. Yeah, very smooth, very
Al: except, you know,
Al: there's a lot to talk about the controls, I think so many things are really great, there's like the decorating, you go into the decorating mode and you can either do things on the grid or you can go off the grid and do things slightly better.
Al: You can like move your camera around to view. I will have talked or I will be talking in the game of the year episode about how this game is one of the few games that I actually like to decorate in and I knew that right back at the start when I played the alpha, just before the interview that I did nearly six years ago, I knew that this game was special in terms of decorating because I just don't care in most games,
Al: this game makes it fun and it makes me feel like I can actually do it as well. It has the flexibility, but it also has the guardrails that allow you to make something that doesn't look terrible. So many times I'm just like, I don't know, like the bed goes there, the big case goes there, but doesn't look good and I don't know why, whereas everything I do in this looks good.
Aislinn: Yeah, and it helps that the again the art style and everything just the art
Aislinn: directional meshes really well together in addition to the flexibility that
Aislinn: they give you with if you want to use the grid system you can if you want to
Aislinn: go off the grid system you can like they they give you that flexibility it just
Aislinn: allows for I feel like more creativity to low and no matter what you put with
Aislinn: what because the art direction is so consistent and so good everything looks
Aislinn: great together and it's just a wonderfully whimsical time.
Al: Yeah, yeah, for sure and it's like you can you they have
Al: Like you can rotate by like 45 degrees which makes things automatically nicer, right?
Aislinn: I'm so...
Al: Like my bed is like
Al: Like diagonally from the corner and it just feels so much nicer than just like, oh, it's like sticking straight out from a wall
Al: You know, it's it just it just feels so much nicer and like my house as well
Aislinn: Yeah, right
Al: You like put your house down when you first start the game
Al: And I put it like just to the right of the river.
Al: And I just it feels so much nicer and coincidentally ended up lining up perfectly to where I wanted to farm things so I can just have a nice low path going down from there. But yeah, it's really nice. Oh, that reminds me that reminds me. Sorry.
Aislinn: Yeah, I gotta-- I gotta--
Al: Just thoughts are coming to me as I'm as I'm talking you if you're putting if you're building things right so see the first example I found this was when I was putting down my stone path from my house to my farm.
Aislinn: No, you're good, you're good.
Al: If you run out of the item that you have, but it's an item you can craft and you have the items that you need to craft it, you can just keep building the thing and it will automatically craft you the item so you can put it down.
Al: So you don't need to do anything. So like you're sitting going pinned down your path, but you only have five paths, but it only takes one stone to do it and you have a hundred stone in your in your box in your house, by the way.
Aislinn: Yes
Al: You put it down path, you run it a path, you just put another piece of path down and it just uses up a stone. You don't it's so many steps are taken away.
Aislinn: Yep.
Al: And it's great. I love it. Absolutely love that. That's so much fun because I the thing that annoys me most about decorating, especially with like path or something like something where you've got a lot of one item is like trying to figure out how many you need.
Al: And then you either underestimate in which case you need to go and craft more or you overestimate in which case you have left.
Al: And what do you do with the leftovers? What is here is here, you don't have to do that. You make one item and then you go and start putting it down and you just keep doing it until you have all of you need and then you're done. It's amazing.
Aislinn: [laughs]
Aislinn: Yup, yup, that was my one of my biggest issues with Animal Crossing was just trying
Al: All my words.
Aislinn: to plan that stuff out, and that's why I like never did it because I was like this crafting
Aislinn: situation is just so way too much thought that I don't want to put in, so the fact that
Al: Yeah. Yeah. And they didn't, and they didn't even have boat crafting until next year.
Aislinn: they just, oh my god, I know literally, so like this, when it comes to that stuff, it, I feel
Al: Myles ahead of everything this is.
Aislinn: this game, this is like a very general statement, it really, it gives you the freedom
Aislinn: to do whatever you want and go and as slow or as fast as you want, and regardless of how
Aislinn: you want to play, how you want to play the game, it respects your time, and I so much so
Aislinn: appreciate that when it comes to farming games, I feel like there are a lot of farming games
Aislinn: that don't respect your time and it
Aislinn: is more grindy than it needs to be and I don't mind the grind to be fair and if you want to grind that's okay but as someone that doesn't always want to do that the fact that this game lets like just again respects your time in my opinion more so I just I really much so I vary my so appreciative
Al: You have a bunch of thoughts, controls wise, lots of smaller items that you want to talk about and go for it.
Aislinn: Yeah. So actually circling back to the house thing, I got to move my house, I got to move my house
Al: [laughs]
Aislinn: because I accidentally put it down on a bush. I didn't realize that. So now there's like a little like
Al: Oh no.
Aislinn: bush graphic like clipping through my house on from the outside.
Al: It's a good thing it's really easy to move your house.
Aislinn: Yeah, I got to move it. I just haven't made the active effort to move it, but like
Al: Which, which, by the way, is a great thing.
Al: The fact that it's so easy to just move it.
Al: And by the way, you can move it just by like one thing.
Aislinn: - Mm-hmm.
Al: None of this nonsense, like Stardew has, what it's like.
Al: Oh, you can't put it there, something's in the way.
Aislinn: [laughs]
Al: No, something's not in the way.
Al: It's the thing I'm moving that's in the way.
Al: It can't be in the way.
Al: No, there's none of that because I did the same thing.
Al: I put the first building you put down for
Al: a person coming to the island. I did the same thing. I thought I was having to like rebuild the the broken stuff
Al: So I was like, oh, I'm gonna build it on this broken thing not realizing that you actually break down that the broken stuff manually
Aislinn: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Al: You know, this is a brand new building. You're not fixing a building
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: So I like put it on and it was like half it was like slanted on top of this
Al: Half wall it was such a weird situation. So I was like, oh, no, I really hope I can move that. Oh, yes
Aislinn: Oh, no!
Al: It is incredibly easy to move it. Thank goodness for that
Aislinn: It's great.
Aislinn: Again, that just start going back to the game
Aislinn: respecting your time.
Aislinn: Just you don't have to do go through all these different hoops
Aislinn: to fix a mistake that you made.
Aislinn: They're just like, "Oh, you made a mistake."
Aislinn: Easy, let's fix it. That's it. That's just great.
Al: And I, and I get that some games are doing it
Al: to be like realistic, right?
Al: Or not that like moving your house is realistic
Al: to do in two days.
Aislinn: Aww, yeah.
Al: But they're at least trying to do something there.
Al: I understand that.
Al: But like, not every game needs to do that.
Al: And I'm glad that Snackle's not doing it.
Al: Like I get that someone, someone too.
Al: And I understand why people will like this makes it better.
Al: But okay, we'll see.
Aislinn: I'm playing a game to play a game. I'm not playing a game to experience reality times, too.
Al: [laughing]
Al: Yeah.
Aislinn: I understand where you're coming from, but I'm playing a game to play a game.
Aislinn: But, um, yeah, other little things that I like is the go home feature.
Aislinn: Love that. Love, love that.
Al: It's a great feature.
Aislinn: But then to kind of just go like a little bit back and forth with the go home feature in mine.
Aislinn: I wish I could read the things in the bookshelf from...
Aislinn: The menu rather than having to go home, um, I never read them to be fair.
Al: Hmm. Yes.
Aislinn: It doesn't really matter that much because I never read them, but if I were to read them,
Aislinn: it would be nice to have like easy access to them rather than, again, having to go home.
Aislinn: But at least there's a very easy go home feature for like fast traveling, essentially.
Aislinn: It's very nice. Very, very, very nice.
Aislinn: So like if you're in the... I haven't hit the mines yet to be fair,
Aislinn: but I would assume that if you were in the mines and you were just like,
Aislinn: "You don't have to worry about running home," like I've done many, many, many, many, many, many, many times in Stardew.
Al: hahaha yeah as you russian you're like I don't know if I'm gonna make it yeah
Aislinn: Yep. Thank goodness for Stardew mods.
Aislinn: Um, the fact that I could just hit go home is so, so, so nice.
Aislinn: And then also the back size is also awesome as well.
Aislinn: Like, they give you so much space in your bag, and that it's so easy!
Aislinn: To make more storage! It's awesome! It's the perfect amount of grinding, but not too much grind to feel like you're being burnt out.
Aislinn: You can save anywhere any time, which is great! You can auto-deposit, which is always a wonderful thing!
Al: the auto-deposing thing is so good and let me tell you that this the sorting in the boxes is better than any other game
Al: I've played like so many times it's like oh I didn't quite sort the way I would want to sort it
Al: Now this time doing everything you want is great. I love it
Aislinn: Yeah. Um, and I already said this, but again, just playing the wiki, playing with the wiki
Aislinn: open has been a good experience or just Google in general. Like I've been really enjoying
Aislinn: like playing the game with the wiki, having my little notebook and just it's been, it's been
Aislinn: really, really nice. Um, in regards to quote, unquote dislikes or like criticism, I guess you
Aislinn: could say criticism. Me, me thing is the, okay, that sounds good. I like that. That works. That sounds
Al: Let's talk about it in the next section.
Aislinn: good. Um, I think I talked about everything then. Yeah, I already, I read a brush upon it. So this
Al: Are the ones fine though.
Al: Oh, you did already talk about the books.
Al: Yeah, that's fine.
Aislinn: is a great transition.
Al: Okay.
Al: So let's talk about farming.
Al: So the farming is pretty standard in terms of her works, right?
Al: Like you tell the land, you sow a seed, you water the seed.
Al: Eventually it grows and you harvest it and then you
Al: have a tree cycle, pre-standard. No one's looking for anything funny or special here, it does what it wants to do. The actual use of the tools is a little bit different than normal. So you have like a, if you just like press the button to do something, it will do it and it will use a certain amount of stamina.
Al: If you hold the button to like, till the land or a chopper tree or whatever, there's a bar.
Al: If it gets to the top of the bar and you let it go, you will lose less stamina than if you don't do that.
Al: I've got two things to say but there's one, interesting, I quite like that, two, I never do it.
Al: And the reason why I never do it, is because I would much rather spam the button and get through time quicker and then just go to sleep and do more with the next day, then spend the time to hold down the button to do less.
Al: But I can do four button presses of a tool in the time that it would take to do one less effective stamina item, if that makes sense. So I just never do that. I think it's an interesting way of doing things and if you really care about like min-maxing things, I can see why you would do that.
Al: Like, I'm the guy that like speed runs spring of farming games, right? Because I'm like, I don't care about this, there's nothing to do right now.
Aislinn: [laughs]
Al: You don't have everything I need to do, let me go to sleep at 10 in the morning, right? Oh, absolutely, absolutely. Like, spring year one is time for sleeping.
Aislinn: 10 in the morning!
Al: It's time for farming and once I've done the farming, when I run a F stamina, I am sleeping.
Aislinn: That's wild.
Aislinn: That's wild. Wildly different from how I operate.
Al: So yeah, I'm just spamming that button, but let me tell you, I love how quick it is. So if, first of all, have you noticed the, the, what?
Al: So what I'm doing is the same amount of stamina, no matter how long you hold the button down for, if you notice that. There you go, a little trick for you.
Aislinn: No, I do not realize.
Aislinn: Good to know.
Aislinn: Yeah, I appreciate that.
Aislinn: That does save me some time.
Al: But I love how fast it is, right? So I have like, what is it like 22 by 3 or something? It crops on my farm just now. And so I'm just like going from one end to the other, and I just like hold, I hold the analog stick to the right, make sure my cameras.
Al: So I'm going completely across, and then I'll just like, I'll just mash that button for, for doing it. And I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm down that lane in like five seconds. It is super, super fast. I love it. And it's like, cutting down a tree. I just mash that button until the tree's gone. And it's gone in a couple of seconds. I love how fast these tools are. It's great. It makes early game start you feel like a slog.
Aislinn: Yeah
Aislinn: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, me too
Aislinn: Yep.
Aislinn: [laughs]
Aislinn: I agree.
Aislinn: I love again.
Aislinn: I will keep staying in over and over, respecting your time.
Aislinn: Respecting your time.
Aislinn: It is incredibly efficient while still giving you, like, scratching that itch of wanting
Aislinn: to have a fun farm, like getting the farming out of your
Al: I also love how there's like little things like for example if you plan onion seeds
Al: You can either harvest them as green onions or you can wait and harvest them as onion onions
Aislinn: Yeah, yeah, I agree, yeah
Al: Like just things like that like I've never really seen that in another farming game except presumably farming simulator does it but like we ignore that
Aislinn: [laughs]
Al: Like the idea of like your crop will change because like you know
Al: I haven't got like any peppers yet, but I don't know whether that would be
Al: a similar thing where it starts off as green and then goes red I don't know maybe maybe maybe I'll be disappointed if it turns it doesn't work that way
Al: But like you know stuff like that. I think is really fun those little little things
Al: I've just never seen a farming game try and do that and that was like the second crop they give you and I thought that was really fun
Aislinn: I guess maybe to be fair, I never even realized that that was not a common thing in farming
Aislinn: games because as you know, there's only so many farming games that I can cycle through and play.
Aislinn: So, if we're going me versus you, I would argue that you have played significantly more farming
Aislinn: games than I have, and yeah, it's not even something that I picked up on, but now that
Aislinn: you point that out, I'm like, oh, that is really cool that they are, I guess, realistic
Aislinn: in that sense in a way, is that realistic actually? Either way.
Aislinn: Okay. It's a good feature. That's a good question. I actually don't know.
Al: I think it is. I think a green onion is just an onion spread. I'm pretty sure that's what it is.
Aislinn: Show us how much of a farmer I am, but...
Al: Yeah, yeah, it's a green onions or a tape of Allian vegetable harvested young, so yeah, yeah.
Aislinn: Ah, cool. Sweet. All right. So we got some realism in there.
Aislinn: I think it's awesome. I guess the one little quote-unquote issue that I have that I wrote down as
Aislinn: as well as I wish.
Aislinn: I wish it's a, it's a personal thing.
Aislinn: I wish Chilling didn't use stamina, but that's me just coming from the mindset of the other game that I'm picking up here in there in regard to a farming same is of course start you so it's like a very minor thing.
Aislinn: I'm, I will feel better about it because I also haven't gotten the sword yet so I'm sure once I get the sword that I'm just going to have no issues whatsoever at that point so.
Aislinn: Not something I'm pressed about whatsoever, I wish it's like man, I just wish this didn't, this telling didn't use stamina and that was it.
Aislinn: [laughter]
Aislinn: The farming in the game feels great so far.
Aislinn: I am enjoying building up my farm.
Aislinn: I think one of the, oddly enough, one of the most off-putting things in regards to farming
Aislinn: games is the farming because of how much of a slog it could be.
Aislinn: So the fact that they've made it in a way where it feels satisfying or I guess rewarding
Al: So I just, I just Google and that is how Bell peppers work in the game as well. You harvest
Aislinn: to do farming, they nailed it.
Aislinn: I really think they nailed it.
Al: them early, you get green ones, you harvest them later, you get red ones. It's like here
Aislinn: Ahh, that's nice!
Al: I was already to be disappointed in the game and they've gone and done it.
Aislinn: They're really hitting everything that we want in a game, and it's awesome!
Al: It's, it's such an unnecessary thing to add by love it. It's great.
Aislinn: It's all about the little things.
Aislinn: It really is like all the little things add up to be this wonderful mishmash
Aislinn: that has been formed into
Aislinn: this game, just the smallest quality of life things. I mean evident here, the smallest quality of life things can be sometimes a little bit of a drag, but then all these other little things just make us dismiss the other negative little things. I don't really know where I'm going with that. I'm kind of just going off in a little bit of income here. It's slightly incoherent tangent, but you know what I mean? [laughs]
Al: Yeah, that's fine. I mean farming, I think overall we're enjoying it. It's good. It's pretty
Al: standard. I believe there are like more tools to automate it more, which I'm looking forward
Al: to getting, but those will feel like an advantage to me rather than just like in most farming
Al: games is like oh good now I don't have to water anymore. And it won't be like oh thank goodness I
Al: don't need to water anymore. It's oh yeah there's just speed things up a little bit because of
Al: not hating watering right? Like I don't feel like I have to artificially limit myself to how
Al: much I can water in a day because you can pretty much water in a thing with with how this game
Al: worked, whichever they like. And the sprinklers will just mean I don't have to go through the effort
Al: of that and can do something else instead which I'm looking forward to. Oh yeah, no absolutely
Aislinn: I agree, I agree. I'm very much still looking forward to sprinklers as much as much as I enjoy water and I'm just like having those extra quality left things is gonna be nice.
Al: absolutely. I'm not saying I'm looking forward to them.
Al: But like in Stardew, I'm like speedrunning to the point where I can get the sprinklers so I don't
Al: because like I just it's so slow watering all your crops. It's like walk up, press the button
Al: two second animation, walk up, press the button two, where is here it's like bam bam bam bam bam
Aislinn: - Yeah.
Aislinn: - Mm-hmm.
Al: and like that is the actual speed that it is. I'm not exaggerating how fast that watering is.
Al: It is like you are doing like five or six a second. It is like super super fast. You can you can
Al: and really speed through it if you go.
Aislinn: Once you get it down to a science like yeah, you can you can really speedrun it
Al: Just make sure that camera is at the right angle so you don't end up going at a diagonal.
Aislinn: Yo, but once you workshop it you you'll have it down pat and it's just it's a it's a it's just I could I could sit there and just
Aislinn: Water all day. I could sit there until all day if I want to
Aislinn: Because it just feels great to do so
Al: Fishing. The other one that's kind of like standard in farming games and every farming game has a different way of doing it.
Al: This is a very different fishing minigame than most farming games, right?
Al: So in my experience, you've got two ways of doing fishing. You either do the Animal Crossing way of fishing, which is you wait until the thing happens, you press the button, you catch it.
Al: Or you do the Stardew one, which is you wait until it catches on, you press the button, and then you have to keep the bobber.
Al: A specific point, pressing one button to make it go up, and then wait for it to go down. And those are fine.
Al: I really like this fishing minigame. So to try, try, I'm going to try and paint a visual picture for those of you that can actually visualize things in your head, and I'm sorry if you're, if you're like me and can't.
Al: I'm going to describe this as a baseball field looking thing. Is that fair? I'm not, I'm not an American, but I'm pretty sure that looks like a baseball field. You're like,
Aislinn: - Yeah.
Aislinn: - Yeah, it's like a baseball field, I would agree.
Al: like what a 45 degree angle roughly of area with a curved top, and you have the fish in the middle, and you've got like your fishing line, this kind of like a line going up the baseball field from the point to the circle at the top.
Al: And basically what you have to do is you have to hold the button and follow the fish left and right as it moves around the angle. So you're basically like changing what angle your fishing.
Al: And if you're on line is at to where the fish is. And if you're on it, it will come closer towards you. And if you offer it will go get further away and eventually it will break the line and disappear.
Al: I think this is a much more easy is not the right word because like some of the fish can be quite difficult, but it feels much more, I don't, I don't even want to say accessible either. It just, it feels more graspable.
Aislinn: Yeah, I know it does make sense.
Al: Does that make sense? I don't know how to describe my feeling towards it, but it feels
Aislinn: I enjoy it more than Stardew and Animal Crossing.
Aislinn: I would say if I would rank the three, it would be I enjoy the Snacko one because it does.
Aislinn: I agree that I don't, I agree that that accessible is not necessarily the correct word,
Aislinn: but it feels graspable indeed.
Al: [Laughter]
Aislinn: like I feel like I did pick it up faster and I enjoy
Aislinn: watching more. Initially I liked Animal Crossing Fishing, but sometimes it just gets very stressful having to like time and out perfectly and you miss it, you're just like aha.
Aislinn: And then the starter you want is just very stressful. Most of the time I'm just like kind of, I might as well be screaming through half of them sometimes. So I'm just like aha.
Al: [laughing]
Aislinn: So like I would say snacko Animal Crossing Stardew for just talking about those three is like my ranking of best to worst experiences.
Aislinn: But it's just, it is very stressful at points and Animal Crossing is generally good, but then when it's a very difficult fish to catch, it becomes kind of a lot.
Aislinn: And I guess I haven't had too many difficult fish experiences yet in snacko, but so far I've been enjoying the experience the most when it comes to fishing.
Aislinn: Like, that little mini game feels, like you said, graspable.
Aislinn: So, I get what you mean.
Al: Yeah, I feel like I just a lot of them are are just the stardew one, but like in a different way
Al: But like essentially it's the same thing. Where is this is much different?
Al: Because those ones are like you press a button to move it one direction and then let go of the button to move it another direction
Al: I don't like the the lack of control there where it's like if you go to high you have to wait
Al: You don't have a way to like reverse it. You just have to wait for gravity
Al: Whereas in this one is
Al: it's like, oh, I went too far. Let me just go the other direction, right? And it's just about making sure that you keep up to date with it and if you fail it.
Aislinn: actually question. I don't know if you noticed because I have to actually test it and I'll probably test it
Aislinn: later today or tomorrow or something. But so what I really, really like about the fishing actually
Aislinn: is the fact that when you interact with the fish and start the fishing like mini-game will call it,
Aislinn: it shows you what fish you caught you or what you could, what fish you could be catching.
Aislinn: And that is, I think, by far my favorite part of it, but my question.
Aislinn: If you see the fish and you're like, I don't need another, if you're not like me and you're like,
Aislinn: I don't need another salmon, can you just back out of the mini-game and does that use your stamina?
Al: I think you can.
Al: That I don't know.
Aislinn: That is something that I'm curious about. So, noted for later, I will try to remember to check.
Al: That's a good question.
Aislinn: I'm curious if it uses up your stamina. If you look at the fish and you're like, I don't want it,
Aislinn: and then you leave. But I do like that you have the option.
Al: Yeah, I'm pretty sure you can just back out, but yeah, I don't know, uh, I don't know how much if he uses stamina or whatever.
Aislinn: Yeah, I know for a fact you can back out, but I haven't realized the other stamina part.
Aislinn: But regardless, the option is nice. If you didn't want to waste your time with it,
Aislinn: you just sacrifice a stamina, that's fine. If you don't sacrifice your stamina and you don't waste
Aislinn: the time, even better. Either way works for me.
Al: [laughs]
Aislinn: I've done a little bit of cooking, I will say I also have not done too much cooking.
Aislinn: I wish I have, I want to do more cooking, but my quests have just been having me do
Aislinn: many other things that I want to do more. But I mean, very simply, I didn't really
Aislinn: write down on the notes just because it's good, it's standard. I don't know if it's necessarily
Aislinn: anything outstanding, but it's fine. I like that it exists. I appreciate that it exists so I can
Aislinn: basically be able to replenish my stamina throughout the day more. But that's also kind of a standard
Aislinn: thing in, I would say, a number of different farming games. So it's good. No, nothing outstanding. Nothing
Aislinn: to complain about at the moment. If there is something, I will follow up at a later point because I
Aislinn: just haven't had enough experience with the cooking to really say too much. But it's good.
Al: I've never come across cooking that I actively enjoy in these games.
Al: It's all just about how much I would do or don't dislike it, right?
Al: And it's like how much time it takes to create a thing.
Al: So I haven't actually done any of the cooking.
Al: Do you get recipes and can you just like click on a recipe and make a bunch of one recipe
Al: or something like that?
Aislinn: "I believe you can. I've only made like one thing at a time, but I believe you can. I feel like you should be able to. It would not make sense to me if you couldn't do that, because then that would go against the rest of the game. So I think you can. But yeah, I just haven't had enough. I probably have had more experience with cooking than you, but I would argue it's not all that much more."
Al: Or are you not that far?
Al: Right. Yeah.
Al: So it looks like they don't have like proper bulk cooking, but if you make a recipe you can just like there's a button press to just make it again
Al: So you can just like press it and it will keep making it
Aislinn: Oh, yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. That's what it is. Which is fine. Again, it's not something that upset me. So it's not something that I like took major note of.
Al: Yeah, and it uses a
Al: Yeah
Al: Yeah, it's just like I like the idea of like going out and like catching a bunch of fish and then going and cooking them all
Al: And it's just like you just got to keep pressing the button and that's fine
Al: but like I guess whatever it's it's it uses your your storage as well so
Al: like the crafting it's basically exactly the same as the crafting right as long as
Al: long as you're gonna press the button and you have the thing that it needs to
Al: do it it's gonna do that thing which is good for sure
Aislinn: Yeah, big help, big quality of life, help.
Aislinn: You're good, you're good.
Aislinn: Yeah, this is really not too much I can add with cooking, because I need a little bit more time with it to really have like a full full opinion,
Aislinn: but it's just been, it's been generally good. I would say, as someone that are good.
Al: Yeah, yeah, I think cooking is such in in my experience cooking is like such a minimal thing in farming games that
Al: It's like yeah, you do it to complete tasks and to get stamina
Aislinn: That's fair. I'm looking forward to sinking time into cooking just because I enjoy a cooking
Al: Right, and it's like so the the less I can do to cook the things I want to cook the better in my in my
Aislinn: mechanic here and there. I mean, I enjoyed magical delicacy for a reason. I enjoyed the cooking
Aislinn: mechanic and there, even though I was sitting there going through like five billion different
Aislinn: resources to figure out how to cook certain things. Once it was done, I was like,
Aislinn: Cool! I'm happy with the end result, and then I just moved on.
Aislinn: So it's like a very, like, in the moment gratifying moment, but it's not something that I initially rushed to do.
Al: It's not something you're praying that you can continue to do as fast as the first thing in your day is going to go do some cooking because you just love it so much.
Aislinn: No. No. I like it. It's on my list of things that I want to do sooner rather than later.
Aislinn: It starts like working through, like, making different recipes, because that's like, the idea of doing that is fun to me.
Aislinn: but I am really trying to figure out the way to get to the mines.
Aislinn: Peace out!
Al: So there are mines in this game.
Al: I haven't actually experienced it because apparently I have unlocked it.
Al: I've just not done them yet.
Aislinn: Oh, no, I'm still working on it.
Al: Have you done the first oblisk and dungeon?
Al: No.
Al: Oh no, I haven't finished the oblisk.
Al: I've done the dungeon that unlocks the first oblisk,
Al: but I haven't finished the oblisk to unlock the mine.
Al: So the dungeons are these like platforming challenges.
Aislinn: Oh, yeah!
Al: So you unlock.
Al: The first dungeon and it's the only dungeon you like have to do to like continue playing the game and unlock more things
Al: But there are other ones that you can do as well and the idea is that they're just they're relatively simple platforming challenges
Al: But they're they also have like a speedrun feature built into them
Al: So like there's people online who doing them like a few seconds and it's very funny the things they do to make it go as fast as possible
Al: But yeah, as you progress the story you unlock the the first dungeon
Al: and you do it and then once you've done that you unlock the first obelisk and then the first obelisk has like you have to give it a bunch of stuff and once you've given it a bunch of stuff then you will finish that and it will unlock the mines and the mines are I think pretty standard in terms of mines and they have some like machines in them to make resources as well but like they have you know clusters and you attack the clusters to get items.
Al: You break the nodes to get items from the thing and the reset every day. Yeah, I don't think there's a huge amount to see especially as neither of us have done the mines sadly.
Aislinn: I'm surprised that you haven't made your way over to the minds, but I did see, I mean, I do see like in the trailer that it looks like you can like ride a car.
Al: There is a mine cart, yeah.
Aislinn: Which is so cool.
Aislinn: I, you can go even faster and you can look like it flies. So I'm very excited to get to that point. I'm very, very, like, I already love mining in every farming game I've played so far.
Aislinn: This might be, this looks like it has potential to be.
Aislinn: The best mining, just solely because of the speed of that car and how fast you can get
Al: Yeah, and the mining is like I'm double checking with a video, but yeah, the mining is pretty
Aislinn: through these areas.
Aislinn: It looks so satisfying.
Al: standard. It's just like there's nodes and you hit them with your axe and your pickaxe and you
Al: get the stuff. But watching this video is reminded me, did you know that your tools can like hit
Al: multiple items at once if you're in the right place? I love that. Yeah, you're using the same
Aislinn: Yes, I've noticed that with trees. I can I'll accidentally hit multiple trees and I'm like yes
Aislinn: I'm not wasting my stamina
Al: you're using the same amount of stamina, but you're hitting two different trees. It's fantastic.
Aislinn: Yes
Aislinn: Yes, yes, yes, yes, it's wonderful. Oh
Al: It works the same for the nodes in the mine as well.
Aislinn: Thank God, that's awesome. That's great. Oh, this game is great. This game is so good
Aislinn: I just I can't believe how
Aislinn: much thought has been put into all these little tiny things to make this game so much more
Aislinn: elevated. I'm gonna guess it's been an
Aislinn: very very long time to be fair but still even though it's been worked on
Al: [laughing]
Aislinn: for like such a long time it feels like a modern game like you would think
Aislinn: that because it's been worked it's it started being worked on like a long
Aislinn: time ago that it would still have like old mechanics in it but it feels so
Aislinn: modern yeah both of us will get there
Al: Yeah, I agree. So yeah, sad that I haven't managed to do the mine yet, but I'll get there
Al: We'll get there. We'll get there
Al: I think that's most of the mechanics. Have I missed any mechanics?
Aislinn: um I think I think we're good I think I'm just thinking off at the top of my
Aislinn: head now in general I think we're mostly good
Al: Cool. All right, I don't want to talk too much about like the characters and the story and stuff like that
Al: But I think I would like to say that this is a funny game
Al: Is like legitimately funny is not like cringe funny is like I'm actually finding myself amused by
Aislinn: it is very charming, it is very very charming and very silly and I so far love no booger junior
Aislinn: and how just child
Aislinn: just literally such a child and so silly and I just love
Aislinn: Mikan is an interesting character too Mikan is like the first the first character that you meet right
Al: Mm-hmm
Aislinn: yeah first character that you meet but
Al: And they're character you you travel to the island with
Aislinn: the I have admittedly kind of I guess spoiled myself a little bit in regards to looking at the
Al: shocking.
Aislinn: character designs I know shocking right cuz I otherwise hate Spark first there I hate spoiling
Aislinn: things for myself but looking at like just like the I think for whatever reason I decided I
Aislinn: wanted to look at like the romanceable characters characters some of these character designs
Aislinn: are awesome and I can't wait to meet them and see their personalities because like every single
Aislinn: character that I've met so far being is it okay for me to list some of the early on
Aislinn: characters okay great so that's what I kind of figure but I was like let me just make sure so
Al: sure I don't think it will mean much to people.
Aislinn: obviously Mikan no boo no boo junior and then I have Riku mac miss curator and I feel like I'm
Aislinn: for getting someone. Oh, I'm forgetting.
Aislinn: Someone and someone else that I will eventually remember, but all their characters feel like I say as I'm forgetting someone.
Aislinn: All of their characters feel like they stand out very much so. And then looking at the designs, especially one in particular, that is just so simply adorable.
Aislinn: Why is their name a song? I have no idea, but they're just a little penguin with glasses. I just, they're so...
Aislinn: cute and so well designed. I think that's like another thing that sometimes I struggle with with some farming games that have like the little, I guess you could call it started.
Aislinn: You can also call it Persona-esque where it's like you have the dialogue and then you have the character and their expressions and everything on the side and whatnot. I don't know what game is like the first game or like one of the most important games that did that.
Aislinn: but seeing all the different characters and how they're designed.
Aislinn: They look so, so, so nice, and I wish I liked, like, some games that I wish I could like
Aislinn: them more, but I can't like them more just because I don't like the character designs.
Aislinn: So I like, be it long story short, I like these characters a lot.
Al: Yeah, that's fair
Al: Yeah, yeah, I do you reminded me that we should probably talk about like just the overall like building up of the town as well
Al: Because like that's a pretty fundamental part of it
Al: Because obviously you start off with just me cannon and Nobu
Al: And then you you slowly add more people to the island as you build it up and it's it's it's a fun kind of like you know
Al: different way to to do that than be just like
Al: you know, here's a village that you're joining and it is what it is and it's kind of static and you're building up but in a less artificial way than say animal crossing feels.
Aislinn: Yes. Yes. I had to think about that. Yes, I agree. It feels more meaningful rather than just
Aislinn: here's another villager that you just added to your town because you like this villager because
Aislinn: it's cute and it's gonna have like the same like 20 lines of dialogue for the rest of your life as
Aislinn: you play this game like it obviously we haven't sunk enough time into this game to really see
Aislinn: like how much dialogue do they truly have but every character feels it.
Aislinn: intentional with their role within the game that I've met so far and they all I'm hoping and I'm
Aislinn: assuming their personalities are all very distinct but just their character designs alone are all
Aislinn: very very distinct despite them being different types of animals they all feel very unique
Aislinn: which I appreciate. I'm very excited to be a song. So cute. Such a cute penguin.
Al: Yeah, I agree. All right
Al: All right, well, I feel like that's that's everything we want to talk about so to conclude on this game
Al: It's good go player. It's good game. I think it to be a bit more more detailed on that
Al: I think if you like farming games, but quite often feel like they can be a bit slow and a bit
Al: Jamie, I think this is a good game to try because it can you can still go slowly if you want you can take your time
Al: But you can also zoom about the place and do what you want and like just do the stuff and
Al: And you know do what you want as fast as you want to do it really which I really like
Aislinn: Yes.
Al: I feel like it's almost the perfect ADHD farming game because there's no
Al: There's no getting bored. There's no like oh this took a second too long, so they
Al: are from my distraction is gone, whichever you like.
Aislinn: It does keep you constantly engaged, but actually I just remember one more like mechanic thing
Aislinn: or control thing that I also really, really like is that in the options, they give you
Aislinn: the option to, because sometimes for some people, some people get, it seems to be overwhelmed
Aislinn: by the amount of quests that they give you in one shot.
Aislinn: So there's an option, I forget what it's called, but there's an option that you can toggle,
Aislinn: and it'll give you less quests in one go, so you get less overwhelmed.
Aislinn: But also your days are longer.
Aislinn: And when you are chopping down trees or breaking rocks or something, you are generally getting more resources as well, if you want to just feel like you don't, if you don't want to feel as rushed because the day is is going to end soon.
Aislinn: So I've been really enjoying this, this, that is that option that combines everything, but this also a separate option if you want to have just simply just less quests in one go. And it's another option if you want to just simply have longer days.
Aislinn: So I have the longer days one toggle because I don't like time limits if I can pause time whenever I could I would, but as of right now.
Al: I have literally never felt like I need any more time in this game.
Aislinn: Yeah, though in this game, in this game it's been very good, so I haven't had to worry about that, but I like the option that I can have longer days and then if I want to go to sleep early, I can go to sleep early, but just giving myself any way to give myself more time.
Aislinn: I will happily take and if I had that option is there.
Aislinn: Is wonderful, although I don't know when that option was introduced because I didn't notice it until pretty recently so I don't know where that came from but yeah, that's my last bit about like little nitpity details but overall conclusion wise, I agree with you that this is a great game that constantly keeps you engage you can play it at your own pace, if you want to speedrun it like you said you could speedrun it if you want to take your time you can take your time, the immersion,
Aislinn: the, just the world of Snacko in general.
Aislinn: Just feels very whimsical and grounded and silly and all the mechanics that all work together.
Aislinn: Despite us having experience with them, i.e. the cooking and the minds and stuff.
Aislinn: I'm sure when we dive into those mechanics more, they will also all tie together really nicely and respect your time well.
Al: For sure, agreed. Good game. Go play up.
Aislinn: Great game.
Aislinn: Wonderful game.
Al: Let's talk about it. Let's talk about it more in the game of the year episode.
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: All right, thank you, Aslan, for joining me for this episode.
Al: Is there anything you would like to share with the audience?
Aislinn: Um, I guess the usual y'all can find me just about anywhere.
Aislinn: Uh, A-Strainer, A-I-S-Trainer, um, streaming at least hopefully once a week on Twitch as of this episode coming out.
Aislinn: Yes, as of this episode coming out, it will have been my cat's first birthday.
Aislinn: And me and my husband will have built a wonderful cat tower for them that I foresee may fall over because they are crazy because I have an orange cat.
Al: He didn't buy the cat Christmas tree.
Aislinn: So.
Aislinn: No, well, we might try to make it a Christmas tree. We're not sure. We have to build the, we have to build the, the, the cat tree first. But, um.
Aislinn: I digress. Y'all can find me just about anywhere except Twitter, um, at A-Strainer. And also my husband and I have moon coo which we really need to make time to record.
Aislinn: So there will be an episode that drops at some point this month in regards to most likely being present on social media.
Aislinn: Is I think the topic that we want to do, don't hold me to it, but that'll be coming. And then top K-pop songs of 2025.
Aislinn: That's my plug.
Al: you you can find the podcast this podcast on tumblr and on blue sky at ths pod you can send us
Al: feedback on our website harvestseason.club this episode you can tell us what if you haven't played
Al: it's knuckle and you would what design would.
Aislinn: Ooh. And if it's not a tuxedo cat, you're wrong. I'm just kidding.
Al: You can also find on our website links to everything to do with the podcast, including a link
Al: to our Patreon, patreon.com/thspod where you can get access to our slack and talk to us there.
Aislinn: Fun times!
Al: You can also get access to our bonus episodes of the podcast.
Al: We have one upcoming, at least one upcoming, our favorite non-farming games of the year, which
Al: We have recorded and edited and is scheduled to come out before the game.
Aislinn: Oh, okay, you can also find in that slack.
Aislinn: You can find out if Al is the witch
Aislinn: witch out of three brothers or if that's three siblings.
Al: No, brothers. Yeah, I don't have any brothers.
Aislinn: Witch, which one are you?
Aislinn: You can only find out in the slack.
Al: Possibly the weirdest plug for this lack ever.
Aislinn: It could work, you never know.
Al: I think that's everything. Thank you, Azeland again for joining me.
Aislinn: He is always appreciated.
Al: Thank you listeners for listening, and until next time, have a good harvest.
Theme Tune: The Harvest Season is created by Alma Henry, with support from our patrons, including our
Aislinn: Have a good harvest, yay!
Theme Tune: pro farmers, Kevin Stewart, Analisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Micah the Brave, and our music is done by Nick Burgess.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website, harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed
Theme Tune: in this episode.
Al: I've forgotten my juice, give me two seconds.
Aislinn: Ah! No problem.
Al: There we go, I'm back. I can't podcast without some liquid.
Aislinn: Some sippy sippy or some sort.
Al: Why did you have to see it like that?
Aislinn: I mean, because I have my two sippies.
Aislinn: I got the rest of my matcha and I got my water.
Aislinn: I got to have my sippies.
Al: Alright, so PCP is very good, right? Let's do this!
Aislinn: Yes, I am ready.